in this video we're dealing with three
different questions
three different problems you might want
to fast forward if you're only
interested
in hearing the answer to one out of
those three
number one the difference between sanwa
and say mitsu buttons this stick is all
sanwa components and this one this one
that i can barely lift
these are say mitsu buttons installed
custom
this stick does not come with zemetsu
out of the box okay
that comparison other people have made
youtube videos
doing that before i think all those
videos suck
so i'm giving you my perspective on the
matter here and now
real quick question two is about the
particular industrial design
of this joystick and the other one why
well for one thing both of these are
available for sale right now
and by them now 2020
early 2021 probably at an okay price
probably within another year
after that they're going to become
priceless collectors items like
everything else on the internet
the price is going to go up and up and
up
these were available for about 100 us
dollars
like the day before yesterday i had a
fan write in and say he bought one for
although with two small control pads
included in a bundle i'm sorry but the
control pads aren't worth
more than 30 40 bucks 250 is a lot to
pay for this
so these things their prices change and
they change
dramatically partly because there is so
much
sentimentality attached and i guess i
guess that's part of the the third and
final
portion of this video i want to talk
about why anyone would want to use such
an
enormous seemingly clunky and
inefficient piece of machinery
why you want to use an interface that
hasn't changed in 50 years in an era
when
computers are being more miniaturized
when you know the size of a cell phone
keeps going down and so much of our
interaction with digital technology
is through this kind of tiny touch
screen interface on a cell phone on a
portable computer or
or what have you um
my interest in arcade sticks is not
nostalgic
but this the reason why this is going to
get more expensive
is partly because so many people are a
nostalgia of the design if you don't
recognize it
this is retrofreak reinventing
the aesthetic and design of the old
ascii stick so ascii where was the
company
and the original ascii stick made for
the famicom
collector's item warships you know
people call it what
heard another youtube recruiter as a a
god-tier
joystick right but the original stick is
only two buttons it only has an amv
button
right in terms of the main button then
select and start like everything else
for the nes
uh just to mention that stick the stick
that inspired this design
this strange graph paper does not makes
it look like a
scientific instrument that's kind of
geometric layout
that stick was not for the american nes
it was for the original
japanese famicom
the american nintendo entertainment
system
you could plug in a new controller
the famicom you could not the
controllers were hardwired in
right so if you think you can just buy
that stick and use it on a north
american
setup or a european set no but yes
obviously if you google it now people
will sell you an adapter or sell you a
modification
people obsess over this stuff and that
again is why the price is gonna go up
and up and up this is gonna become a
collector's item uh
in its turn okay so first things first
what i see
most of the other youtubers doing is
just demonstrating the clicky sound
like like oh yeah you're going to judge
the quality of this product
and then i add some adjectives some
really useless adjectives like mushy
like oh yeah the samoa but it's more
mushy whereas the the semitsu button is
more clicky okay look
if you play the guitar only one part
of the sound of the guitar is created by
the string
the hollowness the hollow wooden
space of the guitar is a significant
part of sound this joystick has a lot of
hollow
space it's really like a drama or a
guitar in its shape
so that's that's part of where you're
not really comparing the sound of the
button you have to just click the button
alone
but what does the sound tell you and
these adjectives like mushy
what do they tell you okay here's i'm
going to break down
for se matsu versus samwell these are
say mitsu buttons the minute you see
them this is natural light i have no
lighting on this is just sunlight coming
in through the window
the minute you see them at any angle
they light up the room
and you say wow they make a big first
impression when you look at them and in
terms of the tactility
they make a big impression too you say
wow this is not
an ordinary button this is something
extraordinary okay
the first impression of the san juan by
contrast
is just ordinary if you walked into an
elevator
and you pressed you know 11th floor you
wouldn't say oh wow this is a santa well
but
no it would be a completely unremarkable
normal button
you click on you go to the 11th floor
and you don't even think about it if you
walk into
an elevator and the buttons look like
this and the buttons
feel like this you go wow the landlord
for this building man he really
he really did something special with
this elevator and these but right and
that includes
there is something special about
clicking the submit two buttons
that's what a lot of people get okay bad
news
these are the 1.5 n spring sticks
spring strength signature buttons
these buttons were designed not for home
use
not for you to type an essay on right
not for long hours bent over your desk
doing
doing hard work or studying or using
applications to memorize chinese
vocabulary no
these were designed for arcade operators
whose attitude was
come in put your 25 cents in the machine
play for 30 seconds and get the hell out
play for two minutes
these were meant to be used for a short
period of time
the i'm amazed anytime i use these
buttons
for two minutes three minutes five
minutes i'm laughing out loud to my
girlfriend saying
i can feel it in my shoulder i can feel
it in my chest
like the amount of work the amount of
pressure the just the the strain
for your hand and for your whole upper
body usually
it's astounding to me i laugh out loud
at how tough
these buttons are and i mean you know
it's special
it's remarkable it's also completely
counterproductive now maybe it's a good
thing
maybe you like myself want to take a vow
that you're never going to play video
games for more than 15 minutes in a day
and this is going to remind you about
the passage of time
if you play anything we're expected to
bang on the buttons like our type
or something you know like any of these
any of these games you are
it's just mind-blowing how much work and
i bench press over 200 pounds at the gym
i do 200 push-ups in a day not every day
many days i do over 200 okay i'm in okay
shape i'm not i'm not i'm not here
keeling over
telling you that the same itsu buttons
are going to be the death of me are
gonna give me a heart attack
okay i'm not it's not my some of you
maybe when you think about
how much your hand has to spread out i'm
six foot three
i got big hands my girlfriend has
smaller hands to play a game where you
got four
you know you're doing using all four
fingers you're putting that much
pressure
there is a reason there is a reason why
the so-called
mushy unremarkable aesthetically
unappealing buttons from samwa
is what all the video game addicts use
okay in terms of the buttons
in terms of functionality sadly
i gotta hand it to to say like it's it's
kind of it's kind of the winner that way
right with that having said why would
you spend a whole bunch of money
for a button that's unremarkable and i
remember like
honestly if you take the time to order
these special and then install them
you're going to feel ripped off you're
going to feel disappointed because
there's nothing special about them
there's nothing
remarkable about them and what's worse
they have the exact
opposite problem from the same itsu
buttons which is like when i'm going
through a menu and setting options
like let's say i'm using a program
because i've
posted this on instagram i try to use
these things to do
a memorization of chinese i was trying
to use them for french language practice
actually try to do productivity
apps with this stuff i wish i could use
uh
joystick to do youtube video editing in
the video editing suite instead of using
a mouse and a keyboard
i try to make product music but i'm
using an app that only uses two buttons
and then i go into the options screen
i'm amazed to see i'm setting off
the other buttons actually i'm not even
seeing them doing not even noticing it
right that actually brings those back to
the design of the original ascii stick
the original ascii stix design was kind
of perfect for assembled buttons because
it was
just two buttons and then a an ocean
of smooth metal this is a straight metal
surface
right there was lots of space for your
hand you're not going to accident though
accidentally triggering these buttons is
a problem
they have a light touch they're a hair
trigger
and by contrast with the same itsu
buttons that is
not the problem okay there is going to
be
no digression in this video talking
about the stick itself that
this one down here this is a uh a legit
sanwa stick
my honest opinion about the joystick
itself
narrowly defined this piece of metal i
think
anyone who's in business today in 2020
whether they are in korea
japan china or spain
any of these manufacturers they all make
good joysticks there's nothing worth
obsessing about there look people can
obsess go ahead
obsessed i don't mind maybe 10 years ago
maybe 20 years ago you could say that
this the actual stick
made by sanwa or made by say mitsu was
so much better than the alternative that
it was worth obsessing over
today i just think the gap has really
closed down so when people talk about
the small difference between san juan
other and other choice manufacturers
they're talking about how much
travel the stick has so after you hear
the click
how much further can you press the stick
before it hits the limit
if you want to obsess over that knock
yourself out what i'm saying is in the
year 2020
all these people are making good
hardware and that's because this ain't
new
this is an incredibly simple device
manufactured out of steel you can make
it yourself you can literally assemble
your own joystick in your garage
don't try to make your own cell phone
don't try to make your own tablet
or you know laptop computer don't try to
make your own car
but this is a mechanism so simple you
actually could make it yourself
be a lot good luck making your own uh
coca-cola
dispenser machine you know like a
machine that a
can vending machine or something a
vending machine that would be really
tough
this you can make it yourself and there
are tons of hobbyists to do right so
just recognize so i mean this is one of
the great things this is like an
obsolete piece of technology
that's still here with us in 2020 and
that's going to be
0.3 at the end of this video moving on
to 0.2
because again right now you could buy
either of these joysticks
this one has been customized you guys
probably know it doesn't come with this
translucent uh purple ball top out of
the box doesn't come with
semi two buttons out of the box um that
was my hard work
if you like that was my my modification
of the design
terrible design worth buying anyway the
first thing i want to say
maybe the last thing i want to say about
arcade stick design is that you can't
just look at the surface at the top
look at this crap can you see this all
right the the power
switch is located here on the side
with about four different buttons and
another what would you call that kind of
switch
a slider for about four options
any any interaction between the user and
these things aside
can and will accidentally switch the
whole thing off
you think that that's a minor problem
it's not it's not a minor problem
you want to talk about a minor problem
this relies on you
owning and not losing this
poorly designed usb a usbc
adapter all right now this is this is
such a lousy
piece of industrials i bought a new one
made out of metal that i thought was
better quality
for amazon doesn't work they want you to
use this one
that comes that's really
really bad industrial design it's
still a wonderful product but in some
obvious ways the design
is unforgivably terrible why is it so
enormous
because this is designed so you can use
it either on a desktop
or directly on your lap without having a
desk or a table
that's it's bigger than a pillow it's
absolutely enormous
right terrible industrial design
terrible
this looks a little bit more clean looks
a little bit more tidy industrial design
right
but you can't really use it on your lap
right what they've given up
and going for the smaller form factor is
now you can only use it on a table
okay unlike the design it's an homage to
or ripping off the ascii stick no empty
space
the buttons take up so much of the space
right there's nowhere really to put your
hand
so we got specific and the worst thing
of all is
the surface matters so here you get an
actual i don't know if it's steel or
aluminum
get a metal surface right in your hands
everything is great i think that's
wonderful right
surface matters when you look past the
surface the rest of this is just
this is an ugly poorly manufactured look
at that crap
look at that garbage whenever you look
at the other sides of this thing it's
it's terrible and i gotta have this
incredibly long
usb cord bundled up it's no way to
retract it or modify the length it's
it's a huge encumbrance makes it
on the plus side i already praised the
actual surface i think that's great i
think the throwback
to the 1980s it is an 1880s design from
ascii it's great
and you get a whole bunch of buttons
smaller buttons here at the top that you
can assign
so if you're a nutcase like me who
actually wants to try to do something
productive
want to study languages use memorization
apps maybe
uh you know like anki uh where they
shuffle the cards and you're
doing repeat memorization you want to
study with this you want to use some
kind of
having so many buttons that you can
assign different functions to at the top
you know functions you may only use once
as well huge advantage
right so and to me
i mean it's kind of ugly and beautiful
at the same time there's something very
appealing about this to me
uh that as i'm about to get into most
technology in the 21st century lacks
okay again both of these
you can buy it now they're probably
going to double or triple in price
later and oh let's give a compare point
of comparison
this is currently cheaper than the
very similar closely comparable arcade
stick put out by sega
sega's put out a brand new 1k stick with
apple green
san juan joystick and buttons
i hope they're true to their word if
people have pre-ordered that and they
get it and then it's not san juan parts
they'll be really disappointed but a
very plain in my opinion ugly
uh joystick arcade stickers just came up
from sega but
uh allegedly with with samwa parts i'd
wait for the reviews
and that's significantly more expensive
it's more expensive than both of them
actually and
yeah i don't know you don't get a whole
lot bang bang for your buck there okay
why would anyone drag this kind of
technology with them into the 21st
century
for me it is in part despite the
tendency towards mineral
miniaturization it's in part because of
it
all right um i've
studied many different languages
can i do the whole list cree ojibwe
pali in the study of pali i was typing
in
burmese cambodian laotian
uh several others well of course thai
oh right yeah ashokan did i i don't
think it's
i skipped sri lanka similes all right
it's like
from the computer's perspective i was
sometimes using six different languages
just in studying one language i've typed
in japanese
chinese one studying this language i
have a little bit of experience with
korean
all right not to mention french and
german okay
our conventions with the keyboard and
mouse
they're very poorly suited to any one
language if you can just take a step
back and be honest with yourself
how does this keyboard and most thing
relate to the english language
it's poor at best but when you have that
comparative awareness like okay
i have experience typing and memorizing
the layout
for languages indigenous to india
southeast asia
japan china like
i really kind of profoundly appreciate
how
awful 21st century computer conventions
are
and how most of them have developed in
an unexamined way or you can say they've
devolved in an unexamined way from like
things that were short-term conveniences
in the late 1970s right when these
computer standards first emerged so you
can look at
keyboards it's a little bit of
experimentation 1970s early 1980s
then we've established a kind of
orthodoxy as to what computer interfaces
are
more recently the arrival of the
smartphone
again there's an early period of
experimentation you can look at the
original
palm pilot you can look at the original
apple newton
shout out to anyone old enough to
remember apple newton um
right and you know and then quickly
an orthodoxy you know established itself
and nobody's thinking about it of course
i'm interested in using computers in
english
that's my main language but i'm also
interested in other languages i'm also
interested in other kinds of
of productivity and a lot gets lost
along the way when i look back at my
life in computers
all right the single most effective and
efficient
operating system i have ever used
was the one built into the sega saturn
you know and i used to have experience
in the old days you could modify your
operating system a lot more than you can
now i remember modifying the hell out of
what
windows 3.1 so that i had a totally
different interface
like nobody else interviewed you could
hack those old versions of windows you
know
probably why virus is such a big problem
yeah my computer didn't connect the
internet
i did it yeah it was pre-internet before
i remember
modified the hell out of it so they had
a really effective
interface and then you know uh i got a
sega saturn for free
because i was a i was a journalist it
was a video game over here
you know start up the saturn and there
are just about
nine options on screen in a grid
you get any of them in half a second you
know
and you look at the mess that modern
computing
now you know what my macintosh computer
looks like
what an android phone looks like and
just how much
meaningless busy work and memorization
is imposed on the end user
and i've had to explain these things to
laotians and cambodians and
thai people like oh yeah this is why you
have to do
you know command f and then this and
this like i'm talking them through
what whether it's clicking through a
bunch of menus or a bunch of arbitrary
you know keyboard commands
most of them don't make sense to begin
with in english and i mean
if you've been doing this all your life
you may have taken on this burden you
may have even raised your own kids
and you start teaching your children
these arbitrary conventions
you don't realize what it is you're
you're carrying around with you
you know now the history of the joystick
begins with a team of engineers
who looked at the way you drive a car
who looked at the way you pilot an
airplane
and he said this is
and they invented a completely new
paradigm
for how people were going to pilot a
helicopter the development of the
joystick
is basically the development of how you
steer a helicopter
right there are a lot of reasons for why
they wanted to improve that including
that
with the joystick you only use one hand
all right you can use one hand
but this type of non-fixed wing aircraft
they needed something intuitive
effective and you've got another hand to
operate the radio or operate the gun or
whatever as you're doing in the military
you know there are other things you you
need to be doing when you have one hand
on the joystick and
that is it you know there was no need to
reproduce
the defects of the way the car steering
wheel works
you know so on and so forth and i just
really
feel this need to challenge the
complacency
of gui design graphical user interface
design to challenge the complacency
of the keyboard itself to challenge the
interface
between language and computing
and i do my small part doing this for
years
you know i just sent email the other day
to the
software company it makes the the
applications i use for studying chinese
and said hey you know
i'd really appreciate it i'd really
appreciate it if you stick if you could
just optimize it a little bit
for joystick use for joystick the
joystick based
interface and they wrote back to me i
had three different companies reply to
me
within the last week uh one of them was
a french guy
two of them were were chinese to my
knowledge people who wrote back to me
and uh all of them said wow we never
even thought of that before
we didn't know anyone was using it with
a joystick
click click click
all of the inefficiencies in video
editing software
even in the just finding and opening the
applications that are on your hard drive
right in that operating mix the
operating system menu with that level
once you start evaluating it from the
perspective
of an arcade stack you realize
just how dreadful just how wasteful the
interface you've already got
really is and how much you've imposed on
the on the user to submit themselves
to this strange soul-destroying
discipline
you know oh yeah that's how you oh yeah
i'm going to do command
shift right bracket to align the text on
the right
really really you know what it's like
explaining that to a secretary in
cambodia
who like barely speaks english or
english is their third language you know
what's like explaining that to your
daughter who's writing a book report
say oh yeah i'm just going to take these
ridiculous inefficient
conventions that like evolved in the
1970s and early 1980s
and i'm going to impose them on you you
know
there could be a better way there should
be a better way
and we're now stuck in a situation where
so much of computer hardware computer
software and the role the user
has evolved in order to serve the lowest
common denominator
apps in order to work well with
something like
facebook that you know we're stuck in a
situation where anything you want to do
that's more sophisticated more creative
more demanding
is at the same time more convoluted
right more of an imposition on you as
the user
and it just doesn't have to be so this
is my rebellion
against the the logic of the 21st
century
cell phone right the cell phone is
tremendously efficient in terms of the
materials used to create it in terms of
battery life right there
there are efficiencies right but it's
incredibly
inefficient in terms of how it uses
your time